Filtering data is a way to group data by selecting
characteristics from our data columns and not looking at the other data.
Looking at a list of names,
suppose we want to find every one with the first name Luis.
We could sort on the first name and scroll down and find everyone named Luis.
But this changes the data and maybe we don't want to do that.
It seems like there's a better way and there is using filters.
Select your data. On the Data menu,
click the filter icon,
which looks like a funnel.
When the filter is on,
we see little filter boxes with pull down arrows at the top of each column.
This is where you choose filters.
Click the filter box on the first name.
There's a dialog. There are some choices for sorting which we don't want right now.
And there's a list of check boxes for every value found in the column.
To look at only at the Luis names,
de-select all the boxes and select only the Luis box.
Or you can search for it and click okay.
We now see only the matches.
At this point, we could add additional filters or copy our subset to somewhere else.
To return your view to the full original data set,
click on the clear icon or just turn filtering off
altogether by clicking on the filter funnel again.